Fix nits in the Evented PLEG page (#40906)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/switch-to-evented-pleg.md

weight: 90
---

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.27" state="beta" >}}

Author: because the feature was Alpha during 1.25-1.26, and it graduated to Beta in 1.27.

<!-- overview -->

This page shows how to migrate nodes to use event based updates for container status. The event-based
implementation reduces node resource consumption by the kubelet, compared to the legacy approach
that relies on polling.
You may know this feature as _evented Pod lifecycle event generator (PLEG)_. That's the name used
internally within the Kubernetes project for a key implementation detail.
The polling based approach is referred to as _generic PLEG_.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

* You need to run a version of Kubernetes that provides this feature.
  Kubernetes v1.26 includes beta support for event-based container
  status updates. The feature is beta and but is _disabled_ by default

>   because it requires support from the container runtime.

Reviewer: This is ambiguous over whether versions later than v1.27 also include that support. Someone might incorrectly infer that the support in v1.27 is stable.

Reviewer: Also, “and but” isn't idiomatic.

* {{< version-check >}}
  If you are running a different version of Kubernetes, check the documentation for that release.
* The container runtime in use must support container lifecycle events.
  The kubelet automatically switches back to the legacy generic PLEG
  mechanism if the container runtime doesnt not announce support for
  container lifecycle events, even if you have this feature gate enabled.

<!-- steps -->

## Why switch to Evented PLEG?

> * The current _Generic PLEG_ incurs non-negligible overhead due to frequent polling of container statuses.

Author: Right. fixed.

* This overhead is exacerbated by Kubelet's parallelism, limiting its scalability and
  causing poor performance and reliability problems.
* The goal of _Evented PLEG_ is to reduce unnecessary work during inactivity
  by replacing periodic polling.

## Switching to Evented PLEG

1. Start the Kubelet with the [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)

>    `EventedPLEG` enabled. The kubelet feature gates can be enabled by editing its

Reviewer: ```suggestuib
   `EventedPLEG` enabled. You can manage feature gates for the kubelet by editing the kubelet
```

Author: Revised.

   [config file](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-config-file/) and restarting the kubelet service.

> 

Author: Good suggestion.

2. Make sure the node is [drained](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/safely-drain-node/) before proceeding. 

> 3. Start the `CRI Runtime` with the `Evented PLEG` support. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Start the container runtime with container event generation enabled.
```

Author: revised.

   {{< tabs name="tab_with_code" >}}

>    {{< tab name="Containerd" codelang="bash" >}}

Reviewer: This is not a bash script.

   Version 1.7+
   {{< /tab >}}

>    {{< tab name="CRI-O" codelang="bash" >}}

Reviewer: This is not a bash script.

   Version 1.26+

   Check if the CRI-O is already configured to emit CRI Events by verifying the configuration,

   ```shell
   crio config | grep enable_pod_events
   ```

   If it's enabled, the output should be similar to the following:

   ```none
   enable_pod_events = true
   ```

   To enable it, start the CRI-O daemon with the flag `--enable-pod-events=true` or
   use a dropin config with the following lines:

>    ```ini

Reviewer: It's actually TOML.

   [crio.runtime]
   enable_pod_events: true
   ```
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

> 4. Verify that _Evented PLEG_ is in use by looking for the term `EventedPLEG`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify that the kubelet is using event-based container state change monitoring. To check, look for `EventedPLEG`
```

   in the kubelet logs.

   The output is similar to this:

   ```none

>    I0314 11:10:13.909915 1105457 feature_gate.go:249] feature gates: &{map[EventedPLEG:true]}

Reviewer: Question, if this were
```
   I0314 11:10:13.909915 1105457 feature_gate.go:249] feature gates: &{map[EventedPLEG:false]}
```
then are the instructions clear enough on how to check?

Author: No. Clarified this on line 85.

weight: 90
---

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.27" state="beta" >}}

<!-- overview -->

This page shows how to migrate nodes to use event based updates for container status. The event-based
implementation reduces node resource consumption by the kubelet, compared to the legacy approach
that relies on polling.
You may know this feature as _evented Pod lifecycle event generator (PLEG)_. That's the name used
internally within the Kubernetes project for a key implementation detail.

The polling based approach is referred to as _generic PLEG_.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

* You need to run a version of Kubernetes that provides this feature.

>   Kubernetes v1.27 includes beta support for event-based container

Reviewer 2: nit: Can you use a shortcode?

Author: Line 8 has the shortcode you are looking for. The explicit callout of this version number is because the behavior is against the tradition. The feature is Beta, but it is disabled by default.

  status updates. The feature is beta but is _disabled_ by default
  because it requires support from the container runtime.
* {{< version-check >}}
  If you are running a different version of Kubernetes, check the documentation for that release.
* The container runtime in use must support container lifecycle events.
  The kubelet automatically switches back to the legacy generic PLEG

>   mechanism if the container runtime doesnt not announce support for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  mechanism if the container runtime does not announce support for
```

Author: fixed.

  container lifecycle events, even if you have this feature gate enabled.

<!-- steps -->

## Why switch to Evented PLEG?

* The _Generic PLEG_ incurs non-negligible overhead due to frequent polling of container statuses.

> * This overhead is exacerbated by Kubelet's parallelism, limiting its scalability

Reviewer 2: nit: This overhead is exacerbated by the kubelet's parallelism, ...

Not sure what 'the kubelet's pallelism' is referring to

Author: Rephrased.
